#+TITLE: Textos
#+SETUPFILE: ../../template.org
#+HTML_HEAD: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../styles/main.css" />
* Texto 1

The ability of tiny computing devices to control complex operations
has transformed the way many tasks are performed, ranging from
scientific research to producing consumer products. Tiny computers on
a chip are used in medical equipment, home appliances, cars and
toys. Workers use handheld computing devices to collect data at a
customer´s site, to generate forms, to control inventory, and to serve
as desktop organizers.

Not only is computing equipment getting smaller, it is getting more
sophisticated. Computers are part of many machines and devices that
once required continual human supervision and control. Today,
computers in security systems result in safer environments, computers
in cars improve energy efficiency, and computers in phones provide
features such as call forwarding, call monitoring, and call
answering.

These smart machines are designed to take over some of the basic tasks
previously performed by people; by so doing, they make life a little
easier and a little more pleasant. Smart cards store vital information
such as health records, driver’s licenses, bank balances, and so
on. Smart phones, cars, and appliances with built-in computers can be
programmed to better meet individual needs. A smart house has built-in
monitoring systems that can turn lights on and off, open and close
windows, operate the oven, and more.

With small computing devices available for performing smart tasks like
cooking dinner, programming the VCR, and controlling the flow of
information in an organization, people are able to spend more time
doing what they often do best – being creative. Computers can help
people work more creatively.

1. Choose the best title for this text
   - Computers are reducing their size
   - Smart devices will help us with the housework
   - _Computers are making life less difficult in many ways_
   - Robots will take over Man

2. How are computers changing lately?
   - They are getting easier to repair
   - They are getting cheaper because of competence
   - _They are becoming smaller and more efficient_
   - They are turning creative

3. Which is the best synonym for "built-in" as it appears in the text?
   - constructed
   - involved
   - _integrated_
   - redecorated

4. Is this statement True, False, Not mentioned or Totally
   disconnected with the information in the text? "Wars will not need
   people as soldiers in the future".
   - True
   - False
   - Not Mentioned
   - _Totally disconnected_

5. According to the text, what does the expression "by so doing" refer
   to?
   - Computers can control inventory
   - Computers can cook.
   - _Computers can work without constant supervision._
   - Computers are part of bigger machines.

6. This is ……… Harry´s bike. I can tell it from ……… broken front
   light.
   - the / a
   - _……… / the_
   - ……… / some
   - a   / the

7. ……… tigers are ……… biggest cats in the world.
   - Some / the
   - ………  / some
   - _………  / the_
   - A    / a

8. I have got ……… spare blank discs. Do you need ………… ?
   - a    / some
   - any  / some
   - some / ones
   - _some / any_

9. After watching ……… TV, they usually go straight to ……… bed.
   - the / a
   - a   / the
   - _……… / ………_
   - the / the

10. ……… People know ……… snow is white.
    - The  / the
    - A    / ………
    - Some / the
    - _………  / ………_

11. Please, pass me ……… salt.
    - a
    - an
    - _the_
    - one

12. Poetry is for ……… young and ……… old; ……… wise and ……… ignorant.
    - a   / a / a / a
    - an  / an / an / an
    - _the / the / the/ the_
    - the / a / the / a

13. ……… most important thing for him is ……… money.
    - _the / the_
    - ……… / -
    - the / ………
    - ……… / the

14. Which one do you like, ……… blue one or ……… orange one?
    - a    / an
    - ………  / ………
    - some / some
    - _the  / the_

15. Edmund Hillary was the first to climb ……… Mount Everest.
    - an
    - the
    - _………_
    - a

16. We invited ……… Simpsons but we didn´t invite ……… Professor
    Smithers.
    - the / the
    - _the / ………_
    - ……… / some
    - a   / the

17. I´ll try to do ……… best for you.
    - some
    - ………
    - _the_
    - a

18. Your tent is almost torn apart but ……… his is totally destroyed.
    - a
    - the
    - an
    - _………_

19. I never believed ……… John´s explanation. ……… policeman´s one
    seemed more logical.
    - the    / a
    - the    / the
    - _………    / the_
    - one of / the

20. This congress on Ancient Egypt can be ……… unique opportunity to
    reveal ……… unknown manuscript.
    - an / an
    - a  / a
    - an / a
    - _a  / an_

* Texto 2

Multimedia systems are known for their educational and entertainment
value, which we call ‘edutainment’. Multimedia combines text with
sound, video, animation, and graphics, which greatly enhances the
interaction between user and machine and can make information more
interesting and appealing to people. Expert systems software enables
computer to ‘think’ like experts. Medical diagnose expert systems, for
example, can help doctors pinpoint a patient’s illness, suggest
further tests, and prescribe appropriate drugs.

Connectivity enables computers and software that might otherwise be
incompatible to communicate and to share resources. Now that computers
are proliferating in many areas and networks are available for people
to access data and communicate with others, personal computers are
becoming interpersonal PCs. They have the potential to significantly
improve the way we relate to each other. Many people today telecommute
that is, use their computers to stay in touch with the office while
they are working at home. With the proper tools, hospital staff can
get diagnosis from a medical expert hundreds or thousands of miles
away. Similarly, the disabled can communicate more effectively with
others using computers.

Distance learning and videoconferencing are concepts made possible
with the use of an electronic classroom or boardroom accessible to
people in remote locations. Vast databases of information are
currently available to users of the internet, all of whom can send
email messages to each other. The information superhighway is designed
to significantly expand this interactive connectivity so that people
all over the world will have free access to all these resources.

People power is critical to ensuring that hardware, software, and
connectivity are effectively integrated in a socially responsible
way. People – computer users and computer professionals –are ones who
will decide which hardware, software and networks endure and how great
and impact they will have on our lives. Ultimately people power must
be exercised to ensure that computers are used not only efficiently
but in a socially responsible way.

1. Choose the best title for this text.
   - The new educational software
   - People must take care with computers
   - Peripherals and hardware solutions
   - _Computers allow lots of new functionalities_

2. Who must watch out for the right application of the process of
   digitalization?
   - Local authorities
   - Computer experts
   - _People in general_
   - Politicians

3. Which is the best synonym for "exercised" as it appears in the
   text?
   - _put into action_
   - done as homework
   - taken physical activity
   - made possible

4. Is this statement True, False, Not mentioned or Totally
   disconnected with the information in the text? "More people will be
   able to shop from home".
   - True
   - False
   - _Not Mentioned_
   - Totally disconnected

5. According to the text, what does the expression "all of whom"
   refer to?
   - Computer experts
   - _Computer users_
   - Computer programs
   - Computer functions

6. Who´s that pretty girl? ……… name is Sophie.
   - My
   - _Her_
   - His
   - She´s

7. My husband isn´t here, ……… is at work.
   - _he_
   - her
   - his
   - him

8. His car looks nice but I prefer ………
   - my
   - me
   - _mine_
   - I´s

9. My wife never listens to my suggestions. She simply ignores ………
   - they
   - _them_
   - my
   - their

10. Don´t leave your sister behind! Wait for ………
    - _her_
    - she
    - hers
    - She´s

11. People like knowing the news. ……… read ……… in the newspapers or watch ……… on TV.
    - He   / them / them
    - They / them / them
    - _They / it   / it_
    - Them / it   / it

12. Who are ……… women over there?
    - this
    - _those_
    - these
    - that

13. I don´t feel well. ……… head hurts and I´ve got ……… fever.
    - the  / ………
    - mine / a
    - me   / any
    - _my   / a_

14. -"Whose car is that ……… ?" -"It´s ……… ."
    - a    / hers
    - _one  / hers_
    - ones / she´s
    - my   / she

15. No, James didn´t shout at Karen; ……… shouted at ……… !
    - she / he
    - her / him
    - her / he
    - _she / him_

16. I always loved fast cars but now I prefer safe ………
    - them
    - _ones_
    - one
    - it

17. No more excuses: ……… want ……… to do ……… at once!
    - me / you / it
    - I  / you / you
    - He / you / them
    - _I  / you / it_

18. (At the door) -"Who is ……… ?" - " ……… , James. Can I come in?"
    - you  / it is I
    - _it   / it is me_
    - this / it is him
    - that / he is me

19. "Who broke this door knob?". "It was ……… : John and Peter"
    - his
    - they
    - _them_
    - these

20. That baby is crying more and more. ……… must need ……… nappies to be changed.
    - he  / her
    - she / his
    - it  / the
    - _it  / its_

* Texto 3
According to new research, learning a second language can slow
cognitive ageing, that is, the speed at which the mental activity of
the brain diminishes. This seems to happen not only in young learners
but also in those who have learnt a new language in their
adulthood. Previous studies had already shown that becoming
functionally bilingual could delay the apparition of elderly demetia
by several years, but the aim of Dr Thomas Bak´s studies was to answer
the question of whether people improve their brain function through
learning new languages , or whether people with better brain functions
are more likely to become bilingual.

Dr Bak´s team assessed data from 835 native English speakers. These
people had passed an intelligence test in 1947 when they were just 11
years old, and were given a new test in their early 70s. Of the
participants, nearly one third said that they could communicate in at
least another language apart from English. Of those, one out of three
admitted they had learnt the new language/s when they were adults.

Researchers said that participants who spoke two or more languages
showed better cognitive abilities than the results from the first
long-ago tests had anticipated. Nevermind if people had been young or
adult language learners. Dr Bak said that the improvements could not
be attributed to the participants´ original intelligence levels and
added: "These findings are relevant as millions of people around
the world acquire a second language later in life. The results show
that being able to use different languages, even when you have started
later in your life, is beneficial against brain ageing.

1. Which is the best title for this text?
   - Better late than never
   - _Learning languages can improve your mental abilities_
   - A curious neurological experiment
   - Intelligence Quotient tests under debate

2. Which word is the best substitute for “aim” in the text?
   - controversy
   - _objective_
   - consequence
   - explanation

3. Who or what does "they" stand for ?
   - the researchers
   - the bilingual people who were interviewed
   - the older people
   - _the people in the experiment_

4. ¿Which of these statements is TRUE according to the text?:
   - Some of the tests results had been manipulates
   - Learning languages is something that can only be done as a child
   - Two groups of people were interviewed: children and elderly
   - _Some people had improved their capacities more than expected_

5. Which is the best synonym for "nevermind" in the text?
   - Very often
   - As always
   - _It doesn´t matter if_
   - However

6. John ́s and Mary ́s jobs are ……… as the best
   - so honourable
   - more honourable
   - _as honourable_
   - less honourable

7. My sister is ……… dancer that I have ever seen
   - the worse
   - _the worst_
   - the goodest
   - the baddest

8. I don ́t like this pub. I prefer them ……… and ………
   - less crowded and eleganter
   - more crowded and more noisy
   - _less crowded and more elegant_
   - crowdeder and noisier

9. They say that La Coruña is very far away from here but Barcelona is ………
   - farer
   - more far
   - _further_
   - fartherer

10. ”Get this one! It's ……… and not ………
    - more cheap     / so old
    - _cheaper        / as old_
    - more expensive / less good
    - expensive      / more good

11. Karen is ……… Susan. She hasn´t left school yet!
    - older than
    - _younger than_
    - the youngest
    - the oldest

12. I´ve got enough work to do this weekend. Don´t give me any ………
    - much
    - _more_
    - less
    - most

13. Cádiz is quite far from Madrid. On the contrary, Córdoba is ………
    - the furthest
    - further
    - as far
    - _not so far_

14. Playing an instrument is just practice. The ……… you play, the ……… it gets.
    - more   / more easy
    - easier / more
    - most   / easiest
    - _more   / easier_

15. Use all your strength! The ……… , the ………
    - more hard / the more good
    - hardest   / best
    - _harder    / better_
    - most hard / most good

16. Is this all you can do with this Ferrari? Can´t you drive it any ……… ?
    - fastest
    - the fastest
    - _faster_
    - less fast

17. Do you really think John is good-looking? Paul is obviously ……… than him
    - more good-looking
    - _better-looking_
    - the best-looking
    - the least good-looking

18. Pau is ……… in his family while Marc is ………
    - the more intelligent / the less
    - the intelligenter    / the less
    - _the most intelligent / the least_
    - the intelligentest   / the least

19. The door couldn´t be opened. So he had to push ……… until it slammed open
    - harder and hardest
    - more and more hard
    - _harder and harder_
    - the most and most

20. The hotel is almost empty. There are ……… visitors than we expected at Christmas
    - _less_
    - fewer
    - more
    - minus
